README.md, before:

# Repository of plugins

This is a repository for plugins for [csound](https://csound.com/). 

# Plugins in this repo

### jsfx

jsfx support in csound, allows any REAPER's jsfx plugin to be loaded and controlled inside csound

### klib

very efficient hashtables for csound

### poly

Parallel and sequential multiplexing opcodes, they enable to create and control multiple instances of a csound opcode

### else

A miscellaneous collection of effects (distortion, saturation, ring-modulation), noise 
generators (low freq. noise, chaos attractors, etc), envelope generators, etc.


# Installation


    git clone https://github.com/csound-plugins/csound-plugins
    cd csound-plugins
    mkdir build & cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install


## macOS

In order to build the jsfx plugins, an assembler compiler called `nasm` is needed. XCode provides such a compiler, 
but its version is very old and does not support 64 bits. To solve that, it is necessary to install a recent version
of `nasm`. This can be easily done via `homebrew`:

    brew install nasm

If you have a default installation of homebrew, the build process will detect this version (`/usr/local/bin/nasm`) and 
will use that instead of the older one. After solving this, procede with the normal installation process above.


# Documentation of all plugins

Go to [Documentation](https://csound-plugins.github.io/csound-plugins/)


## Offline Documentation

Static documentation can be browsed by opening site/index.html in your browser. To be able to
use the search function you need to:


    # install [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/):
    pip3 install mkdocs --user

    # generate the documentation and serveit
    mkdocs build && mkdocs serve

The documentation can then be browsed at htpp://127.0.0.1:8080

Commit message:

added ref/deref opcodes, with documentation

README.md, after:

# Repository of plugins

This is a repository for plugins for [csound](https://csound.com/). 

# Plugins in this repo

### jsfx

jsfx support in csound, allows any REAPER's jsfx plugin to be loaded and controlled inside csound

### klib

very efficient hashtables for csound

### poly

Parallel and sequential multiplexing opcodes, they enable to create and control multiple instances of a csound opcode

### else

A miscellaneous collection of effects (distortion, saturation, ring-modulation), noise 
generators (low freq. noise, chaos attractors, etc), envelope generators, etc.


# Installation from source

## Dependencies

* `nasm`: an assembler compiler needed by `jsusfx`

#### macOS

The `nasm` version provided by XCode is too old. To solve that, it is necessary to install a recent version
of `nasm`. This can be easily done via `homebrew`:

    brew install nasm

If you have a default installation of homebrew, the build process will detect this version (`/usr/local/bin/nasm`) and 
will use that instead of the older one.

### Windows

    choco install nasm

### Linux

    sudo apt install nasm

## After installing dependencies

    mkdir build & cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install


# Documentation of all plugins

Go to [Documentation](https://csound-plugins.github.io/csound-plugins/)


## Offline Documentation

Static documentation can be browsed by opening site/index.html in your browser. To be able to
use the search function you need to:


    # install [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/):
    pip3 install mkdocs --user

    # generate the documentation and serveit
    mkdocs build && mkdocs serve

The documentation can then be browsed at htpp://127.0.0.1:8080
